---
title: Open Source National Security Initiative - Primer
author: Patrick Ryan
contact: mailto:patrick.ryan@emblem21.com
date: 6/29/2019
summary: TL;DR version of what the OSNSI hopes to achieve.
tags: ai warfare, osint
draft: true
---
--> [The events at Portland today involving Andy Ngo](https://twitter.com/Jimryan015/status/1145067852375851008) have made it abundantly clear that [city officials](https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2018/oct/14/ted-wheeler-portland-mayor-stands-decision-allow-a/), [foreign money](https://archive.fo/QLZ0v), [police chiefs](https://archive.fo/JG4zc), [federal law officials](https://archive.fo/AMDyy), and [entrenched political families in the West Coast](https://archive.fo/7KviH) are pulling the strings for a widespread intimidation strategy in advance of the 2020 elections.  Anyone expecting militias, citizens, police, private contractors, journalists, moral figures, thought leaders, or any part of the American legal system to effectively counter the actions of these hopelessly brainwashed and violent mobs is not only a fool, but has intentionally lived a sheltered life where they actively avoid ever being targeted by such intimidation.  Many of us have spent years adapting to the round-the-clock watch by leftist media opportunists, federal panopticon surveillance, and Silicon Valley twerps who abuse their positions for Right Side of History points.  It's time to put that training to use and start implementing Gnostic Warfare tactics to target the AIs that power Antifa.

## What is Antifa?

--> Antifa is not a "grass-roots" movement.  It's not a reaction against anti-fascism.  Antifa is the manifestion of Chris Hedges, the 2014 harbinger of the [professional revolutionist](https://archive.fo/Ll8sI).  Yes, Antifa has a storied history in Europe, but what happened between pre-WW2 and now?  Did Antifa motivations take a seventy year vacation just because the Americans and Russians forced Germany to surrender?  Of course not.  *Antifa* is not a philosophy... it is a tactic.

--> In 2008, the powers that be determined [stealing all of our land](https://archive.fo/UIHnx#selection-437.1-437.532) and [bailing out foriengers over US citizens](https://archive.fo/9qXWW#selection-991.0-1013.68) was the way to recovery.  This means that the United States became a vassal of the globalization it expended ludicrous amounts of military assets to secure.  To ensure perpetual vassalization, domestic enforcement is required and Antifa is one of several candidates contending to be the primary means of enforcement.  That means if you have objections to [corporations lobbying to redirect your healthcare contributions into non-citizen cheap labor as a perk](https://archive.fo/5YpOY), Antifa is one of several models of last-stop enforcement that will be deployed to your door to force you into silence.

## What is Gnostic Warfare?

--> [Gnostic Warfare](/2018/06/02/Gnostic-Warfare/) is a holistic analysis of attack vectors focused on compromising the common elements shared between multiple modes of cognition.  This means exploring the weaknesses of Kurweilian singularities, posthuman neurochimera, hiveminds, and neural network ecosystems. (I'll refer to these as "*gnostic constructs*" from here on out)  I'm very certain you are currently unable to connect these mythical congitive constructs to Antifa, but hear me out.

--> Employees at Google not only sympathize with Antifa, but they actively provide material assistance and information assets to help them.  Such employees might tweak algorithms to provide favoritism in search results, ad filtering, and intentionally watering down facial recognition technology to protect individual Antifa members.  With such corporate backing, sympathetic tech workers make sure public AI products support their Antifa comrades.  Identifying such employees and the techniques they use to goose the AI would be tremendously helpful in cutting Antifa off from corporate sponsorship.

--> Google isn't the only backer of Antifa.  They also have help from [powerful corporations](https://archive.fo/EoNAs) and [well-funded political machines](https://archive.fo/ErZ2D).  Each of these backers provide money, training, and intelligence support for Antifa.  Each of these supporters have dependencies on artificial intelligence, neural networks, machine learning, and data science.  The goal is to identify where those *gnostic constructs* exist and then undermine them.  With the training I am going to provide, you will be able to identify corrupt public officials, detect money laundering between shadow players, identify weaknesses of sympathetic billionaires and corporate board members, use metadata and signals analysis to discover ineffective law enforcement practices that favor Antifa, and uncover the bribes of dishonest journalists.

--> The reason why data scientists behind AI have to be targeted is because they aren't known for their political accumen.  While their moral flexibility is exploited by mass media agents running moral cover for Antifa, they ultimately are still receptive to logical presentation and, unlike their tech worker peers, will still demonstrate skepticism when pressured to engage in hard political party obedience.  I know this because [Butterfly War worked](https://archive.fo/uuxnH).

## Why focus on AI over political battlegrounds or street demonstrations?

The dream of every social justice princeling is to have an army of perfectly loyal machines ensuring reality complies to their moral framework.  Low maintenance, low energy costs, and low feedback is exactly the type of schedule that social justice advocates yearn for.  Therefore, social justice at peak efficiency requires gnostic constructs as enforces, first as a [policy of nudging](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nudge_(book)), then as [social enforcers](https://archive.fo/t37SJ), then as physical enforcers.

[AI security does not exist](https://archive.fo/OVl6B) and those working on it are mired in a [naive monoculture that can be fractured](/2013/08/14/the-theory-of-fracturing-monocultures/).  Every weakness in these princeling fantasies of total control starts with a human operator whose work is essential to the performance of various gnostic constructs.  Once the operator is discovered, they can be made to influence the results of a machine learning process, a data science policy, or a data lake query.  Antifa unknowingly relies on a large number of AI policies that amplify their legal infallibility.

--> In short, with Gnostic Warfare training, you will be able to identify AI dependencies that empower Antifa and manipulate them to reduce their legal protections and operational capacity.  Upon doig so, you will make the transition from reviled supporter of fringe nationalism to the feared internal affairs division of the upcoming Robotic Nationalist order.

## Strategy

--> Detecting gnostic constructs within a network means identifying information about the people in that network.  This means seeing a group of people and how they are related as a puzzle to solve.  A person is a data point that contains unknown properties you have to discover.  As you build up facts about data points, you can connect them together to establish a network.  Once the shape of the network appears, you can identify the location of gnostic constructs and then act to compromise them.  To get started, you're going to have to get a crash course on [Open Source Intelligence](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open-source_intelligence) (OSINT) techniques.  This means you're going to have to learn how to deal with Linux and Python.  These are easy things to do now.

--> The goal isn't to target individual Antifa members  That's pointless.  You are examining their money, influence, logistics, and coordination networks for bottlenecks, core nodes, and weak spots.  That means understanding how people are related to one another and their value to other nodes within the network.  This lets you control such networks and reduce their operational capacity.